About charging  
1. It is strictly prohibited to connect equipment that exceeds the product's usage load.

2. It is strictly prohibited to use batteries or chargers not provided by Yabo.

3. When the battery power is low, the buzzer of the expansion board will sound an alarm. At this 
time, you need to turn off the power and then charge the battery.

4. Please turn off the main power switch on the expansion board when charging the battery. Do not 
use the battery while charging to prevent the charger or battery from exploding.

5. When charging, the charger indicator light lights up red, indicating that it is charging, and the 
charger indicator light lights up green, indicating that the battery is fully charged. Someone 
should supervise the battery when charging, and unplug the charger as soon as possible after 
charging to avoid battery overcharging.

6. After use, the main power switch should be turned off. When the device is not used for a long 
time, keep the battery voltage at about 7V. Remove the bottom battery compartment, unplug the 
battery wiring, take out the lithium battery pack and place it in a battery safe area. Do not 
contact it with metal objects. Mixed storage, the insulation film wrapped outside cannot be torn 
off.

7. Keep away from heat, fire, liquids of any kind, and never use in moisture or rain. Humid 
environments may cause short circuit damage to the product.

8. If the lithium battery pack or battery charger smokes or becomes hot (the outer packaging may 
crack in serious cases), you should quickly disconnect the power strip or the main switch, then 
quickly pull out the charger, and take out the battery and place it in an open area.

9. When the lithium battery pack or battery charger catches fire or smokes, please use sand or dry 
powder fire extinguisher to extinguish the fire, and then evacuate to a safe area quickly.

10. If the lithium battery pack or battery charger is damaged, severely overheated, deformed, 
discolored, has an odor or has any other abnormality, it must not be used, and please contact 
Yabo or other agents in a timely manner.

11. Please use it in an environment with a temperature of 0℃ to 35℃. The stability of the lithium 
battery pack or battery charger may decrease at other temperatures.

12. It is strictly prohibited to intentionally puncture, short-circuit, reverse connect, weld without 
permission, impact, crush, or throw the battery pack or battery charger.

13. It is prohibited to use the product in an environment with strong static electricity and strong 
magnetic field, otherwise it may cause damage to the product.

14. It is strictly prohibited to modify or modify the hardware circuit board without permission.

15. Please do not let children use the lithium battery pack or battery charger without adult 
supervision. When storing the battery, keep it out of reach of children.

 

Battery parameters  
Nominal voltage: 7.4V



Supply voltage: 5.6V~8.4V

Battery capacity: 2000mAh

Battery cells: 18650*2

Rated current: 15A (7.5C)

Maximum discharge current: 20A (10C)

Protection circuit: overcharge protection, over-discharge protection, over-current protection, short-
circuit protection

Battery weight: about 115g

Battery size: 67*37*22mm

Discharge wire length: 15cm (AWG14)

Charging cable length: 10cm

 

Robot charging  
Insert the charger that comes with the product into the power strip, and the charger indicator light 
will turn green.

Turn off the robot's main power switch. Find the charging interface on the robot expansion board, 
and insert the charging connector of the charger into the charging interface of the expansion board.

When the charger is charging the robot, the charger indicator light turns red.



Wait until the battery is fully charged and the indicator light turns bright green. Unplug the charger 
connector and charger, and place the charger in a safe area.

 