Serial port configuration WiFi  
instructions（ROS）
Serial port configuration WiFi instructions（ROS）

The module needs to be connected to the USB TTL module
Serial port configuration

1.Configure wifi instructions in STA mode（The mode of connecting to the local area network）
2.Configure WiFi instructions in AP mode（Module spontaneous hotspot mode）
3.Configure WiFi mode
4.Other instructions
5.Instructions for configuring ROS IP

The module needs to be connected to the USB TTL  
module

usbttl camera

RX TX

TX RX

GND GND

VCC VCC

 

 

Serial port configuration  



Baud rate:115200、No Parity 、No hardware flow control、1 stop bit

If using a serial port assistant configuration,When sending instructions, it is necessary to Remove 
automatically send new lines（Additional bit）

As shown in the figure：


1.Configure wifi instructions in STA mode（The mode of  
connecting to the local area network）

Command explain example notes

The name of the
sta_ssid: sta_ssid:yahboom yahboom:Connected WiFi

connected WiFi

WiFi password for 12345678:WiFi password
sta_pd: sta_pd:12345678

connection for connection

matters needing attention

1. Both sta_ssid and sta_pd must be followed by an English character punctuation mark.
2. When the wifi to be connected does not have a password, send sta_pd: once in this way.
3. If the above command is successful, it will return OK information. If there is no information, 

check the serial port wiring.
4. When sending the sta_ssid: command like this，There will be fail, ssid is null Characters of, 

indicating that the connection wifi name cannot be empty.



5. The sending of instructions can be all uppercase or all lowercase 
6. The name and password of the WiFi cannot exceed 30 characters in length, otherwise the 

configuration will fail
7. WiFi names and passwords cannot have Chinese characters
8. The wifi password will automatically reset every time a new change occurs. If only the 

wifi name is changed, manual power-off reset is required.

2.Configure WiFi instructions in AP mode（Module  
spontaneous hotspot mode）

Command explain example notes

ap_ssid: Set WiFi name ap_ssid:my_wifi my_wifi:Set WiFi name

ap_pd: Set WiFi password sta_pd:12345678 12345678:Set WiFi password

matters needing attention

1. Both ap_ssid and ap_pd must be followed by an English character punctuation mark 
2. When the wifi to be set does not have a password, simply send ap_pd: once.
3. If the above command is successful, it will return OK information. If there is no information, 

check the serial port wiring
4. When the ap_ssid: command is sent in this way, it will return fail, AP_Name is null The 

character indicates that the WiFi name cannot be empty when set
5. The sending of instructions can be all uppercase or all lowercase
6. The name and password of the WiFi cannot exceed 30 characters in length, otherwise the 

configuration will fail
7. WiFi names and passwords cannot have Chinese characters
8. The wifi password will automatically reset every time a new change occurs. If only the 

wifi name is changed, manual power-off reset is required

3.Configure WiFi mode  

Command explain example notes

wifi_mode: Configure WiFi mode wifi_mode:2 0：AP 1：STA 2：AP+STA

matters needing attention

1. wifi_mode Be sure to add an English character punctuation mark after it.
2. wifi_mode: Only 3 modes can be set in total. If a negative number is passed in, it defaults to 

AP mode. If a number is greater than 2, it defaults to AP+STA mode

4.Other instructions  



Command explain example return

Obtain the IP Return the IP address connected to the
sta_ip address of the sta sta_ip local area

mode network(eg:sta_ip:192.168.2.199)

Obtain the IP Return the IP address of the self
ap_ip address of the ap ap_ip enabled WiFi

mode mode(eg:ap_ip:192.168.4.1)

Restore factory
wifi_reset wifi_reset Reset_OK

settings

Obtain the version
wifi_ver wifi_ver YAHBOOM VerSion:2.0.5

of WiFi firmware

matters needing attention

1. The sending of instructions can be all uppercase or all lowercase
2. If the above command is successful, there will be corresponding information for the return 

value. If there is no information, check the serial port wiring
3. wifi_reset:Configure WiFi mode to AP+STA mode，The wifi name of AP is 

Yahboom_ESP32_WIFI,no password,Automatic reset.

5.Instructions for configuring ROS IP  

Command explain example notes

Host proxy to 192.168.2.105:It is the IP
ros2_ip: ros2_ip:192.168.2.105

connect to address of the proxy host

matters needing attention

0. A proxy host is a system with an ROS2 (humble) environment that is unbuttoned.
1. The sending of instructions can be all uppercase or all lowercase.
2. ros2_ip:It must be followed by an English character punctuation mark.
3. The connected host IP must be in the same network segment as the wifi connected to ESP32
4. The startup of ROS2 can only be achieved through STA mode or dual mode coexistence 

mode, and cannot only use AP hotspot mode, otherwise the ROS system will not be 
implemented

5. The port of the proxy is 9999 , The command to start on the host terminal is as follows:

docker run -it --rm -v /dev:/dev -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm --privileged --net=host 

microros/micro-ros-agent:humble udp4 --port 9999 -v4



5. domainid:20  The default domain ID of ROS2 is 0. To communicate with the host using ROS2 
system, the domain ID needs to be changed to 20