10.Driver library and communication  
10.Driver library and communication

1、Install serial port driver library
2.Install robot driver library

1、Install serial port driver library  
Since the robot and the underlying expansion board use serial port communication, the serial 
port driver library needs to be installed before it can be used. The Yahboom Muto system has 
already installed the serial port driver, so you can ignore the following steps.

The Ubuntu system has multiple serial libraries. Installation errors may cause the serial port to fail 
to communicate properly. Please follow the steps below to install the serial port driver library.

Open the terminal and enter the following command to install the serial port driver

sudo pip3 install pyserial

Check the version number of the serial port driver library

pip3 list | grep pyserial

 

2.Install robot driver library  
The Yahboom Muto mirror system has already installed the latest robot driver library, so there is 
no need to reinstall it.

You only need to install the robot driver library if you are not using a Yahboom image or if the 
driver library has updated content.

The following installation process takes Jetson Nano’s installation of the MutoLib driver library as 
an example:

Transfer the driver library file to the system, taking transferring to the desktop as an example, 
and decompress it to obtain the corresponding MutoLib folder.

cd ~/Desktop && ls

unzip MutoLib.zip



Start install drive library.

cd MutoLib

sudo python3 setup.py install

Check the version number after installation.

pip3 list | grep MutoLib

Test the underlying firmware version number of the read version.

python3

from MutoLib import Muto

g_bot = Muto()

g_bot.read_version()

Muto has two optional parameters Muto (port="/dev/myserial", debug=False). 

The port parameter indicates the specified serial port device number. 



By default, /dev/myserial has been specified. If the factory image is not used, it can be modified to 
/ Device numbers such as dev/ttyUSB0; the parameter debug=True means printing debugging 
information, False means not printing debugging information.