20.ROS2 rviz2 use  
 

1. Introduction to Rviz2  
In the process of robot development, there are various functions. If we only analyze from the data 
level, it will be difficult to quickly understand the effect of the data.For example, for a robot 
model, we need to know what the model we designed looks like, and where the many coordinate 
systems inside the model are during movement.

Another example is robotic arm motion planning and mobile robot autonomous navigation. We 
hope to be able to see the surrounding environment of the robot, the planned path, and of 
course sensor information, cameras, three-dimensional cameras, lidar, etc.Data is used for 
calculations, and the visualization effect is for people to see.

Therefore, data visualization can greatly improve development efficiency. Rviz2 is such a data 
visualization software in the robot development process. Robot models, sensor information, 
environmental information, etc., can all be handled here.

 

2. Rviz2 startup  
Start a terminal and use the following command to start:

rviz2

If you are starting in docker, please make sure that the GUI display is turned on.

 

3. Image data visualization  



First connect the camera, run the camera node, open rivz2, click "Add" in the Displays window on 
the left, find the Image display item, OK and confirm, you can add it to the display list.Then 
configure the image topic subscribed to the display item, and you can successfully see the robot's 
camera image.

 

4. Point cloud data visualization  
In the same process, first connect the camera, run the camera node, click Add, add PointCloud2, 
set the subscribed point cloud topic, and then you can see the point cloud data.

 

5. Lidar data visualization  



First connect to Lidar, run the Lidar node, click Add, select Laserscan, and then configure the topic 
name of the subscription. At this time, you can see the laser point.

 

6. Other data visualization  
Many commonly used data visualization plug-ins are listed in rivz_default_plugins. You can try to 
use them one by one.